On existing sites.
Changing the password encryption method needs some effort.
I assume you already store only password hashes in your database, so not knowing the user's actual
passwords, you cannot rehouse them with a more secure algorithm.
One way to do that would be to wait for each user's next log in.
This is the time when you have a plaintext password available and you can rehash it with password hashing
API.
You will need to keep your existing code as legacy authentication method and add a new method that uses
password caching API for migrated users.
Also, you need an extra column in your database where you will mark whether the user is already migrated
or not.
Now on each log in check if the user had already been migrated to strong hash by verifying the password
migrated field.
If not, use the legacy authentication method to verify the password.
Generate the new hash with password.
Hash function.
Replace the hash in the database and mark the user as migrated.
And for all migrated users.
Just use the new authentication method on subsequent logins.
This method is not too difficult but has a serious downside.
Unless all users will log into the site and number of legacy password hashes will still remain vulnerable.
It can take a long time to migrate all active users and of course some people will never log in again,
so their hashes will remain vulnerable forever.
This is why it's better to act proactively.
The recommended way is to run through all users table and use puzzle testing API to generate strong
hashes from currently stored hashes instead of actual passwords.
Hashing hashes is of course not ideal, but still better than keeping weak hashes.
And because we were not done yet, we still need the extra code online database.
Now on each log in, the procedure is pretty much the same as before.
Check if the user had already been migrated to strong hash by verifying the password migrated field.
If not, verify the password first, convert it to the legacy hash and only then provide to password
to verify function.
Generate the new strong password hash based on the plaintext password.
Replace the password hashing the database and the the user is migrated.
And just like with the first strategy for all migrated users, just use the new authentication method
on subsequent logins.